Design Directive: Card & Surface System
Objective: To establish a visual system for all interactive surfaces (cards, panels) that creates a sense of depth, materiality, and intentional responsiveness. The design should feel premium, intuitive, and data-forward, drawing inspiration from principles of physical product design and human-computer interaction.

Principle 1: Subtle Materiality and Depth
The user should feel like they are interacting with high-quality, tangible objects on a well-lit surface.

Surface Foundation (The Background): The main dashboard background should not be a flat color. Apply a very subtle radial gradient or a faint noise texture. This creates a physical "canvas" for the cards to sit on and prevents the interface from feeling sterile.

Dark Mode: The background should be a near-black (e.g., #121217) with a very large, soft radial gradient of a slightly lighter tone emanating from the center.

Light Mode: The background should be a soft off-white (e.g., #F7F7F9) with a subtle inner shadow on the edges of the viewport to create a sense of containment.

Card Material & Elevation: Cards are the primary interactive elements.

Background: The card background should have a subtle linear gradient (e.g., from rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.08) to rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.05) in dark mode) to give it a slight sheen and avoid flatness.

Edge Definition: Instead of a simple border, create a "machined edge" effect. This is achieved with a combination of a 1px border in a semi-transparent white/black and a 1px inner box-shadow of the opposite color to create a subtle bevel. This mimics the look of precision-cut glass or metal.

Realistic Shadows: Use a sophisticated, multi-layered box-shadow to simulate a single, soft light source (typically from the top-left). The shadows should be faint and diffused, providing elevation without being distracting.

Example CSS for a card shadow:
box-shadow: 0px 0.8px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.032), 0px 2.7px 6.7px rgba(0,0,0,0.048), 0px 12px 30px rgba(0,0,0,0.08);

Principle 2: Intentional & Physical Motion
Every interaction should have a corresponding reaction that feels natural and provides clear feedback.

Hover State (The "Lift"):

On hover, the card should not have a glow. Instead, it should gently "lift" towards the user.

This is achieved by combining a subtle upward translation with an expansion of its shadow.

Animation: transform: translateY(-3px);

Shadow: The shadow should become slightly larger and more diffused to enhance the feeling of increased elevation.

Transition: All transformations must be smoothly animated using a custom cubic-bezier curve that mimics physical acceleration and deceleration. This is critical for a premium feel.

Example CSS: transition: transform 0.25s cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1), box-shadow 0.25s cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1);

Active/Pressed State (The "Press"):

When a user clicks and holds down on a card, it should press back down into the surface.

Animation: transform: translateY(0px) scale(0.99);

Shadow: The shadow should shrink and sharpen slightly. This provides immediate, tangible feedback that the input has been registered.

Principle 3: Data-Aware Micro-interactions
The UI elements should subtly react to the data they contain, providing information without demanding attention.

Data-Driven Ambient Glow:

Replace the static "accent border" with a data-driven ambient glow.

For the System Reliability card, if the status is "Excellent," the card's box-shadow should have a very faint, diffused green tint mixed in. If the status drops to "Warning," it could have a yellow tint.

This is far more elegant than a solid border and integrates the status into the fabric of the element itself.

Subtle "Pulse" on Data Update:

When a critical number on a card updates in real-time (e.g., a new "Theft" event occurs), the card should perform a single, subtle "pulse" animation.

This could be a quick, soft glow of the data-aware color (e.g., a faint red pulse for a theft) that fades in and out over ~1 second. This draws the user's eye to new information without the need for a jarring notification.

This directive creates a system where the UI feels less like a flat picture and more like a responsive, physical control surface. This focus on materiality, physics-based motion, and purposeful, data-aware feedback is the hallmark of a top-tier designer's approach.